What's new 8.13 (#4979)
elastic/security-docs: docs/whats-new.asciidoc

[float]
=== Per-field diff for Elastic prebuilt rule updates

When examining an {security-guide}/prebuilt-rules-management.html#update-prebuilt-rules[updated Elastic prebuilt detection rule], you can now view rule changes field by field as well as in a full JSON view.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.13/prebuilt-rules-update-diff.png[Prebuilt rule comparison, 85%]

[float]
=== Alert suppression supported for indicator match rules

{security-guide}/alert-suppression.html[Alert suppression] now supports the {security-guide}/rules-ui-create.html#create-indicator-rule[indicator match] rule type. You can use it to reduce the number of repeated or duplicate detection alerts created by an indicator match rule.

[float]
=== Refined header design for alert details flyout 

The header design for the {security-guide}/view-alert-details.html[alert details flyout] has been refined to improve readability and structure. Basic alert details are now presented in a more clear and organized way.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.13/alert-details-flyout-right-panel.png[Right panel of the alert details flyout, 75%]

[float]
== Persistence of Data Quality dashboard results 

> The {security-guide}/data-quality-dash.html[Data Quality dashboard] now retains results across sessions, ensuring continuity of information. Additionally, the dashboard now shows timestamps indicating when each index was last checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The {security-guide}/data-quality-dash.html[Data Quality dashboard] now retains results across sessions, ensuring continuity of information. Additionally, the dashboard now shows when each index was last checked.
```
simpler / more accurate this way

* Inline actions and a search bar to the left panel:
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.13/event-details.png[Event details panel, 85%]

* A date and time range picker, which allows you to analyze an event within a specific period of time:
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.13/date-range-selection.png[The date and time range picker, 85%]

* A data view selector, which allows you to filter analyzed events further:
+
[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.13/data-view-selection.png[The data view selector, 85%]

[float]
== Response actions enhancements

The following enhancements have been added to response actions:

[float]
=== Automated response actions for host processes

You can now add {elastic-defend}'s `kill-process` or `suspend-process` {security-guide}/response-actions.html[response actions] to detection rules. This allows you to automatically terminate or suspend a process on an affected host when an event meets the rule's criteria.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.13/automated-response-actions.png[Automated response actions, 85%]

[float]
=== Third-party response actions (SentinelOne)

> {security-guide}/third-party-actions.html#sentinelone-response-actions[Direct SentinelOne] to perform response actions on protected hosts without leaving the {elastic-sec} UI. You can isolate and release a host from detection alerts and the response console, and view third-party actions in the response actions history log.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now {security-guide}/third-party-actions.html#sentinelone-response-actions[direct SentinelOne] to perform response actions on protected hosts without leaving the {elastic-sec} UI. You can isolate and release a host from detection alerts and the response console, and view third-party actions in the response actions history log.
```

[float]
== Entity Analytics enhancements

The following enhancements have been added to Entity Analytics:

[float]
=== Asset criticality

> You can now assign an {security-guide}/asset-criticality.html[asset criticality] level to your entities, based on their importance to your organization. For example, you can assign **Extreme impact** to business-critical entities, or **Low impact** to entities that pose minimal risk to your security posture.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can now assign an {security-guide}/asset-criticality.html[asset criticality] level to your entities based on their importance to your organization. For example, you can assign **Extreme impact** to business-critical entities, or **Low impact** to entities that pose minimal risk to your security posture.
```

> You can now assign an {security-guide}/asset-criticality.html[asset criticality] level to your entities, based on the impact they have on your organization. For example, you can assign **Extreme impact** to business-critical entities, or **Low impact** to entities that pose minimal risk to your security posture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now assign an {security-guide}/asset-criticality.html[asset criticality] level to your entities, based on their importance to your organization. For example, you can assign **Extreme impact** to business-critical entities, or **Low impact** to entities that pose minimal risk to your security posture.
```

> The risk scoring engine includes asset criticality as a risk input when calculating entity risk scores.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The risk scoring engine includes asset criticality as an input when calculating entity risk scores.
```

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.13/host-details-flyout.png[Host details flyout, 85%]

[float]
== Cloud Security enhancements

The following enhancements have been added to Cloud Security:

[float]
=== Benchmark rules can be turned off

You can now turn individual {security-guide}/cspm-benchmark-rules.html[benchmark rules] on or off. This allows you to customize your Cloud Security Posture Management (CSPM) and Kubernetes Security Posture Management (KSPM) integrations to reduce noise from benchmark rules that don't apply to your environment.

[role="screenshot"]
image::whats-new/images/8.13/benchmark-rules.png[Benchmark rules, 85%]

[float]
=== Cloud native vulnerability management (CNVM) Findings UI enhancements

The **Vulnerabilities** table on the {security-guide}/vuln-management-findings.html[Findings page] now includes improved grouping capabilities (up to three nested groupings), and more table customization options.

image::whats-new/images/8.13/cnvm-findings-grouped.png[CNVM findings grouped, 85%]

[float]
== Custom fields for cases must have a default value

> If you {security-guide}/cases-open-manage.html#cases-ui-custom-fields[add a custom field] to a case, and set the field to be required, you cannot leave the field empty. You must set a default value for it.

Reviewer 3: Yeah, the wording here is a little awk and assumes that users are already familiar with the [custom fields](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/kibana/8.11/whats-new.html#_kibana_cases_custom_field) feature for cases. This feature essentially allows you to add your own custom fields to a case so you can further configure and categorize it. When you create a custom field, you set it as optional (users don't have to fill it out when creating a case) or required (users have to fill it out). The above summary describes custom fields that are set up to be required, and says that required fields must have a value. 

Maybe we can change the summary to this:

```suggestion
When adding {security-guide}/cases-open-manage.html#cases-ui-custom-fields[custom fields] to a case, any fields that are mandatory must have a default value.
```

Here's another, more direct option:

```suggestion
Mandatory {security-guide}/cases-open-manage.html#cases-ui-custom-fields[custom case fields] must have a default value.
```

> If you {security-guide}/cases-open-manage.html#cases-ui-custom-fields[add a custom field] to a case, and set the field to be required, you cannot leave the field empty. You must set a default value for it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When adding {security-guide}/cases-open-manage.html#cases-ui-custom-fields[custom fields] to a case, any mandatory fields must have a default value.
```

> If you {security-guide}/cases-open-manage.html#cases-ui-custom-fields[add a custom field] to a case, and set the field to be required, you cannot leave the field empty. You must set a default value for the field.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you {security-guide}/cases-open-manage.html#cases-ui-custom-fields[add a custom field] to a case, and set the field to be required, you cannot leave the field empty. You must set a default value for it.
```
